	<p>For a college student, building a professional network can be a challenge. Why? For some, they may be clueless in what career pathway they should take. For others, they may be clueless in who they should approach to start and connect with. For many, they may be clueless in how to present themselves professionally. </p>

										<p>Despite these reasons, how can you, a college student, establish and expand your network successfully?</p>

										<p>Go on a personal exploration. Define yourself. Find out things that interest you the most. Yes, networking is all about meeting new people and establishing relationships; however, it is important to know yourself before approaching others. How can you introduce yourself to people when you barely know yourself? When you know your interests, you will be able to know what group of people you should approach first and the general direction of your path. </p>

										<p>Go on a social exploration. Once you are able to determine the direction you want to follow, establish your connections. Broaden your network by attending job fairs, conventions, and expos. Visit your professors during their office hours, make yourself known, and possibly, ask for opportunities. Take advantage of your school resources regarding internship opportunities and job openings. Join interests clubs and meet your peers who are seeking to extend their networks as well. Get to know people who actually work in the field. Moreover meet people in the internet through social networking sites such as LinkedIn or Facebook . Making connections within the cyberworld can be equally useful as making connections within the real world. The cyberworld enables you to connect with people even when they may be 10,000 miles away from you. You are not limited to meeting people who are only physically near you. </p>

										<p>Stay connected. Build a stronger network by staying in contact with all the people you’ve met. Get to know them more in depth rather than knowing just their names and professions. Be open and take part in conversations among your network. Don’t hesitate to ask questions or to voice out your opinions. Send personalized emails or messages occasionally to update the people on your network of your recent experiences and whereabouts. This way, the connections you have established will not be lost and forgotten. The stronger the bond is the more opportunities that will come in the future.</p>

										<p>Be original. It is tempting to create an appealing profile by misinformation and over-exaggeration. However when people with whom you have connected realize the truth later on, your original intent will backfire and damage your credibility and your network itself that you worked so hard to build. Stay true to yourself. Let others know who you truly are and different aspects of yourself. Talk about your other interests, causes which you support, and past experiences that you have before. Let them learn more about you and your personality. This will also help build a stronger bond between both.</p>

										<p>Be professional. Present yourself in a professional manner. Often times, the people you will meet will be older than you. This is why it is important to respect yourself and respect them as well. The main purpose of building a professional network is to gain opportunities in the future. It might not be the wisest idea to put a picture of yourself making a funny face as your profile picture on LinkedIn. It might be memorable and original but not in a good way. You want to give the people on your network a good sense of maturity and responsibility. Keep your personal life and work life separate. This will reassure them that you are here for business instead of parties and Friday-night-hangouts. In turn, when the time comes, they will be more confident in recommending you for a job, an internship, or any opportunity.</p>

										<p>Get out of your comfort zone. Don’t be afraid of rejections. Don’t be discouraged because you feel you are lack in experience and intelligence. Remember, your knowledge and experience will also expand as you progress throughout college. Be confident in what you know. Be willing to expose yourself in new experiences. Be flexible. It is fine to realize you are no longer interested in the field you have chosen originally and need to start over again. The more people you know from different professions, the more versatility you give yourself in the future.</p>

										<p>The golden key to building a professional network successfully:  Embrace every opportunity and take advantage of every encounter.</p>
